Improve deprecation doc (#653)
oamg/leapp: docs/source/deprecation.md

it is deprecated (unless it is fixed e.g. as side-effect of another problem).

## How to deprecate entities in leapp

When you want to deprecate an entity in leapp projects, use the `deprecated`
decorator from `leapp.utils.deprecation` above the definition of the entity.
The decorator has two input parameters to be able to specify start of the
deprecation process and detail msg about the particulat deprecation. E.g. in
case the deprecated functionality has a replacement, it is expected it will
be mentioned in the msg. See [usage examples of @deprecated](deprecation#usage-examples-of-deprecated)
decorator for several examples how to use it.

Since you marked the entity as deprecated, user will be notified via messages
and reports when entity is used in the code. It is obvious that as an author
of the deprecation, you know that the entity is deprecated and you do not want
to notify people that the code - that still provides the deprecated
functionality - is used. To suppress deprecation messages in such cases,
use the `suppress_deprecation` decorator taking as arguments objects that
should not be reported by the deprecation. E.g. in case you use it above the

> definition of an actor, any use of the deprecated entity inside the actor

Author: The definition of an actor starts with `class`. It will be shown in examples.

will not be reported.

WARNING: It is forbidden to use the `suppress_deprecation` decorator for any
purposes but the one, to keep original official functionality for a while.

> If you see the message and you are not *provider* of the functionality, you

Author: @bocekm The deprecation warning message.

```python
from leapp.models import Model, fields
from leapp.topics import SomeTopic
from leapp.utils.deprecation import deprecated

@deprecated(since='2020-06-20', message='This model has been deprecated.')
class Foo(Model):
    topic = SomeTopic
    value = fields.String()
```

If we do this and execute actors that produce/consume messages of this model,
we will immadiately obtain messages like these (just example from the actor
producing the message after execution by snactor):

```
============================================================
                 USE OF DEPRECATED ENTITIES
============================================================

Usage of deprecated Model "Foo" @ /path/to/repo/actors/foogenerator/actor.py:20
Near:         self.produce(Foo)

Reason: This model has been deprecated.
------------------------------------------------------------

============================================================
             END OF USE OF DEPRECATED ENTITIES
============================================================
```

Obviously we do not want to remove the actor yet, as in such a case, the
model could be hardly called as deprecated. But we do not want the deprecation

> message to be produced in this case, as we want to keep the official
> functionality around that actor during the deprecation process, but the messages
> are focused on "custom" use of the model. E.g. in case when user create own
> actor producing/consuming a msg of the model. To fix this, suppress

Reviewer: ```suggestion
message to be produced in this case, as we want to keep the original
functionality of that actor during the deprecation protection period. The warning messages
are focused on a "custom" use of the deprecated model - in case a user creates their own
actor producing/consuming a message of the model. To fix this, suppress
```

> the deprecation message in this actor. To do it, only thing we have to do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the deprecation message in this actor. To do it, the only thing you have to do
```

# Deprecation

The deprecation process is here to make (your) life of developers easier.
It's not possible to write perfect solution for everything and as the project
is evolving, it happens that some functionality needs to be changed, replaced
or dropped completely. Such situations are inevitable. To reduce negative
impact on your code, we introduce the deprecation process described below.

> 

Author: Done.

## What does it mean that something is deprecated?

When you deprecate something, the only thing that changes is that the
deprecated entity is marked in the code as deprecated which can have
additional impact,likemessages produced on the user's terminal,
in the report, ... But the rest of the functionality is the same as before,
until the entity is removed completely.

## What is the deprecation process for leapp

In case some public public functions or models are to be removed for any
reason, these need to be marked as deprecated before the removal (if possible).
In our projects, the deprecation will be applied only for functions and models
that have been introduced in an official release (IOW, a functionality that
has been merged into the upstream, but has been removed before the release

> or was marked as experimental all the time, is going to be removed without

Author: As a developer, you look just to the released content if you want to be sure you are using stuff that is not experimental. Then it's clear what is included and what isn't.

the deprecation state). The time period during which the deprecated entity

> won't be removed is at least 6 months. That doesn't mean we will remove

Author: You are not deciding anything. The time period is specified. When the protection time period ends, we can remove the deprecated functionality. But we do not have to remove it just for the purpose of the removal right? When we are not working on anything related, we could keep it there as it is if we want. From our POV, even more we should focus when we deliver the functionality to customer. Have an example: we deprecate something on Jan. The release happens on April. Another release will happen on July. Does it means we have to or should remove the stuff for the July release? No. We can keep it for example for the next November release. So people have enough time to fix their code.

> won't be removed is at least 6 months. That doesn't mean we will remove

Author: @ZhukovGreen the date when you deprecate the functionality. e.g. the current day ;-) in case we would like to improve it, we can update the information before the release, in case it matters

> won't be removed is at least 6 months. That doesn't mean we will remove

Author: Hmm.. the date doesn't make sense. It's deprecated in the day of the commit. So since == today. not 6months in future.

> won't be removed is at least 6 months. That doesn't mean we will remove

Reviewer 2: resolved over the call

> everything deprecated immadiately after the 6 months, but it's to be expected

Author: Fixed.

that it will be dropped anytime between 6 and 12 months since the deprecation.

In case of issues, deprecated functionality is not going to be fixed since
it is deprecated (unless it is fixed e.g. as a side-effect of another
problem fix).

## How does leapp informs about deprecated functionality?

> Mainly via release notes and changelogs. In the official leapp related projects

Reviewer 2: Why not to be more specific here: Via release notes, changelogs, deprecation warnings (included to the upgrade report and pytest captured warning summary)

Author: Because here we present what is the real source of truth. We cannot expect that people will run pytest for their custom code. We cannot expect that the report message will be generated everytime. It's described in limitations of our solution below.

output in the end of the snactor execution. See examples in this page for
detail.

But be aware of limitations of our detection in leapp and snactor utilities.
Our detection mechanisms are not bulletproof. Here is list of some examples,
when our detection does not work well:

- when an actor a message of a deprecated model, the usage of the deprecated
  model is detected only if the message has been produced before; IOW, in
  case the message X is produced only on machines with a specific package,
  the deprecated usage is not detected on machines without the packagw
- when a message of a deprecated model is consumed, the message points
  internals of the leapp framework, instead of place where the message is
  consumed, e.g.
  ```
  Usage of deprecated Model "Foo" @ /usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/leapp/models/__init__.py:113
  Near:         return cls(init_method='to_model', **data)
  ```
- a deprecated class (including model) is reported only when an instance of the
  class (object) is created during the runtime
- use of a deprecated function/method is reported only when the function is
  called

There are probably other cases, but these are the most common, that could

> confuse people.

Reviewer 2: let's remove this as it sounds, basically, not reliable. If we face other problems, we have to update the documentation

Author: For almost sure there could be others. But do we want to write all cases? The purpose of the message above is to show, that it's just additional level to inform people about deprecated stuff, that it will not inform you in 100% cases about all deprecated stuff and still, there is the only source of truth (changelogs, release notes).

## How to deprecate entities in leapp

When you want to deprecate an entity in leapp projects, use the `deprecated`
decorator from `leapp.utils.deprecation` above the definition of the entity.
The decorator has two input parameters to be able to specify the start
of the deprecation protection period and a message explaining that
particular deprecation. E.g. in case the deprecated functionality has

> a replacement, it is expected it will be mentioned in the msg.

Reviewer 2: code is better than a thousand words:) and link to the code is even better, so we have a single source of the truth. Let;s point to https://github.com/oamg/leapp/tree/master/tests/data/deprecation-tests

Author: Code is below. And our test cases are really not best guidance always ;-)

See [examples of the use of the @deprecated decorator](deprecation#usage-examples-of-deprecated).

When you mark any entity as deprecated and this entity is then used
in the code, leapp users
, user will be notified about that via terminal and report messages.
As the author of the deprecation, you know that the entity is deprecated
and you do not want
to notify people about the code that still uses the deprecated entity
just for the reason to retain the original functionality. To suppress
the deprecation messages in such cases,

> use the `suppress_deprecation` decorator taking as arguments objects that

Reviewer 2: Are we assuming no warnings to the developers about approaching the end of deprecation period?

Author: I am missing the connection between this line and the question. So far, people are awared about deprecated functionality. Hopefully, as it wil be related to developers, they read documentation (public and official one) where we will be clear about the time period.

should not be reported by the deprecation. E.g. in case you use it above the
definition of an actor, any use of the deprecated entity inside the actor
will not be reported.

WARNING: It is forbidden to use the `suppress_deprecation` decorator for any
purposes but one - retaining the original official functionality over the deprecation protection period.
If you see the message and you are not the *provider* of the functionality, you

> have to update your code to be independent on it.

Reviewer 2: I would remove it, because we already specified the use case of the `suppress_deprecation` decorator. Moreover, in my opinion, this sounds a bit rude to write `forbidden` without explaining the reason.

Author: I thought the reasoning is clear from the text. If people developers do it,  end user (and even other developers) will not be notified, running the code, so it could happen that something will immediately break after we remove the deprecated functionality. Telling that reasoning in the warning seems for me like duplicate, as it should be really obvious. More importantly, what is suggestion for the correct text?

@bocekm What do you think?

```

Obviously we do not want to remove the actor yet, because in such a case, the
model could be hardly called as deprecated. But we do not want the deprecation
message to be produced in this case, as we want to keep the original
functionality of that actor during the deprecation protection period.
The warning messages
are focused on a "custom" use of the deprecated model - in case a user
creates their own
actor producing/consuming a message of the model. To fix this, suppress
the deprecation message in this actor. To do it, the only thing you have
to do is to set the `suppress_deprecation` decorator before the actor,
e.g.:
```
#TODO: add example
```

Instead of that, I will set the `suppress_deprecation` for the actor, so
the messages will not be produced in this case.

## How are users notified about deprecation

Beside changelogs/release notes, warning messages are always shown after
`snactor` executions via `snactor run` or `snactor workflow run`.
At the end of executions of `leapp upgrade` or `leapp preupgrade` the warnings are added as report entries with a
developer audience. If the deprecation is less than 6 months old the severity is set to 'MEDIUM' if it is older than

> 6 months the severity is set to 'HIGH'

Reviewer 2: We already facing this third time I guess in the text. Let' have it in one place

Author: That's expected as it is draft and the document is not finished.

that will not be possible to cover reasonably by the deprecation process (e.g.
change output of the function...). This should happens in as low number of cases
as possible, but still it could happen. To limit such problems (and even those
with the deprecated content), we recommend people to use APIs as much
as possible.

## What does it mean that something is deprecated?

When you deprecate something, the only thing that changes is that the
deprecated entity is marked in the code as deprecated which can have
additional impact,likemessages produced on the user's terminal,
in the report, ... But the rest of the functionality is the same as before,
until the entity is removed completely.

## What is the deprecation process for leapp

In case some public functions, models,... (let's say, basically whatever that
is supposed to be used by other people) are to be removed for any
reason, these need to be marked as deprecated before the removal (if possible).
In our projects, the deprecation will be applied only for leapp entities
that have been introduced in an official release (IOW, a functionality that
has been merged into the upstream, but has been removed before the release

> or was marked as experimental all the time, is going to be removed without

Reviewer 2: I still can't understand, why do you referring this official release. As a developer, I confused here. I don't know what is experimental all the time and I don't know is it included in the official release? Probably, what makes it clear to me if I read something like this:
1. Check if the entity you would like to deprecate existed before the last release (git checkout release/bump-version-XXXX and check if this entity still presents)
2. If no, then no deprecation needed, otherwise it is needed
3. Experimented functionality means the functionality is marked as experimntal decorator (just example, since I didn't seen it so far)

Author: No, you do not have to check whether the functionality has been part of the last release or not (git blame can tell you that very quickly. btw) you can just deprecate it always as you want. but usually it doesn't make sense to create deprecation for something, that people have no possibility to use right? Same for the experimental think. When something is experimental (or there is clear disclaimer that people should not use it, it's experimental, ...) people cannot expect we will apply the deprecation process. we can, but why, as they couldn't use it?

Reviewer 2: resolved over the the call

they are deprecated (unless they are fixed e.g. as a side-effect of another
problem fix).

## How does leapp informs about deprecated functionality?

Mainly via release notes and changelogs. In the official leapp related projects
(especially leapp and leapp-repository) the OAMG team take care about release
notes to ensure they contain all data about dropped and deprecated
functionality.

Additionally, when using leapp or snactor, user is notified via messages about
deprecated entities in **limited cases** (see below). In case of the leapp
utility, such messages are presented inside the generated reports. In case
of the snactor utility, the information message is printed in the console
output in the end of the snactor execution. See examples in this page for
detail.

But be aware of limitations of our detection in leapp and snactor utilities.
Our detection mechanisms are not bulletproof. Here is list of some examples,
when our detection does not work well:

- when an actor a message of a deprecated model, the usage of the deprecated
  model is detected only if the message has been produced before; IOW, in
  case the message X is produced only on machines with a specific package,

>   the deprecated usage is not detected on machines without the packagw

Author: man, such comment is really not helping so much, when I have to read that several times before I find the issue. use suggestions in case it's just about a few changes. if you find a lot of changes, rather open pr with changes, so it's easier to go through that.

>   the deprecated usage is not detected on machines without the packagw

Author: fixed.

from leapp.tags import IPUWorkflowTag, FactsPhaseTag
from leapp.utils.deprecation import suppress_deprecation

@suppress_deprecation(Foo)
class FooProducer(Actor):
    """
    Just produce the right answer to the world.
    """

    name = 'foo_producer'
    consumes = ()
    produces = (Foo,)
    tags = (IPUWorkflowTag, FactsPhaseTag)

    def process(self):
        self.produce(Foo(value='Answer is: 42'))
```

This is the most simple case. Let's do a small change and produce the message
inside the private actor's library instead. The library looks like this:

```python
from leapp.models import Foo  # deprecated model
from leapp.libraries.stdlib import api

def produce_answer():
    api.produce(Foo(value='Answer is: 42'))
```

And the updated actor looks like this:

```python
from leapp.actors import Actor
from leapp.libraries.actor import fooproducer_lib
from leapp.models import Foo  # deprecated model
from leapp.tags import IPUWorkflowTag, FactsPhaseTag
from leapp.utils.deprecation import suppress_deprecation

@suppress_deprecation(Foo)
class FooProducer(Actor):
    """
    Just produce the right answer to the world.
    """

    name = 'foo_producer'
    consumes = ()

>     produces = (Foo,)

Author: Yeah. I could add something like that yet. I will add another example

    tags = (IPUWorkflowTag, FactsPhaseTag)

    def process(self):
        fooproducer_lib.produce_answer()
```

Now, if you execute the actor again - you can see that there is still not any
deprecation message. So the `suppress_deprecation` decorator works transitively
as expected. However, even when the actor is treated well, the current
implementation could affect results of unit-tests. Just to show the idea, what
could be wrong, imagine unit test like this one (ignore the meaninfulness
of this example test, it's just for education):

```python
from leapp.libraries.actor import fooproducer_lib
from leapp.libraries.common.testutils import produce_mocked
from leapp.libraries.stdlib import api
from leapp.models import Foo  # deprecated model

> def test_process(monkeypatch):

Author: Do yo umean, because it is handled by the suppress_deprecation decorator in the actor.py file in such a case?

> def test_process(monkeypatch):

Reviewer 2: No, I removed the suppress_deprecation, and if you run test via current_actor_context, than you can't capture warnings (as well as logs, see https://github.com/oamg/leapp/pull/652). I think the reason is the same - running the actor in a separate process.

> def test_process(monkeypatch):

Author: Thanks for explanation.

    assert Foo(value='Answer is: 42') in produced_msgs.model_instance
```

If you run the test, you will get output like this (shortened):

```python
| 21:48:01 | conftest | INFO | conftest.py | Actor 'foo_producer' context teardown complete

repos/system_upgrade/el7toel8/actors/fooproducer/tests/test_unit_fooproducer.py::test_process PASSED

================================================== warnings summary ==================================================
repos/system_upgrade/el7toel8/actors/fooproducer/tests/test_unit_fooproducer.py::test_process
  /tmp/leapp-repository/repos/system_upgrade/el7toel8/actors/fooproducer/libraries/fooproducer_lib.py:5: _DeprecationWarningContext: Usage of deprecated Model "Foo"
    api.produce(Foo(value='Answer is: 42'))
  /tmp/leapp-repository/repos/system_upgrade/el7toel8/actors/fooproducer/tests/test_unit_fooproducer.py:10: _DeprecationWarningContext: Usage of deprecated Model "Foo"
    assert Foo(value='Answer is: 42') in produced_msgs.model_instances

-- Docs: http://doc.pytest.org/en/latest/warnings.html
======================================== 1 passed, 2 warnings in 0.13 seconds ========================================
```

> As you can see the warning have been generated again. This time on two places,

Author: It depends. As my teacher told, there are basically no rules for commas in english. It's just matter of taste. Basically one of rules for commas is e.g. the oxford comma, which is optional as well.

in `test_process` and `produce_answer` functions. Unless warning messages affect

> results of tests, we do not require strictly to handle them. However it's good

Author: I think it's not good idea. We already discussed something like that in the past and we agreed in the end just on the soft way for custom/third party code. In such case, we are not talking about the deprecation. It should be there until we remove it. With no changed functionality. Such blockers do not make sense really. Maybe it could result in state when people stop writting tests.

> results of tests, we do not require strictly to handle them. However it's good

Reviewer 3: I agree with the coma comment...

> results of tests, we do not require strictly to handle them. However it's good

Author: fixed

practice. But if the warning log could affect the test (e.g. if a test function
checks logs) it should be treated by the `suppress_deprecation` decorator too.
In case of the library function, just add the `@suppress_deprecation(Foo)` line

> before the definition of the `produce_answer` function. But if we do the same

Author: @ZhukovGreen  I think that you are missing point what is deprecated. We are not deprecating the `produce_answer` function but the usage of the model in the function (see the `Foo` argument in the decorator). That's completely valid scenario and it is not workaround, it is how it works. This is trully real example which people could find out. As well, it's clear that in such case the deprecation doesn't have to be used before the actor definition. Please, read it carefully and then we can sync about how you understand it. From your answer it looks that the explanation is still not clear. If you understand it right from this comment, you can come up with improvement of the doc.

> before the definition of the `produce_answer` function. But if we do the same

Reviewer 2: Closing it and reword my comment in other place

======================================== 1 failed, 1 warnings in 0.21 seconds ========================================
```

It's because the mechanism of decorators in python and how pytest works.
In this case, we need to do a small workaround, like this:

```python
from leapp.libraries.actor import fooproducer_lib
from leapp.libraries.common.testutils import produce_mocked
from leapp.utils.deprecation import suppress_deprecation
from leapp.libraries.stdlib import api
from leapp.models import Foo  # deprecated model

@suppress_deprecation(Foo)
def _foo(value):
    """Small workaround to suppress deprecation messages in tests."""
    return Foo(value=value)

def test_process(monkeypatch):
    produced_msgs = produce_mocked()
    monkeypatch.setattr(api, 'produce', produced_msgs)
    fooproducer_lib.produce_answer()
    assert _foo(value='Answer is: 42') in produced_msgs.model_instances
```

That's the whole solution for the *FooProducer* actor. Analogically to this,
we need to treat the `FooConsumer` actor. You could notice, that all imports
of the `Foo` model are commented. It's good practice as it is more visible
to all developers, that a deprecated entity is present.

> ### Example of a derived model deprecation

Reviewer 2: All this chapter is very confusing to me. I think this is absolutely ok to deprecate the base model and expect that children will fire the deprecation warning. The only thing that we can do here is to improve the message of the deprecation warning so that it will contain the real source of the deprecation. but this is just a feature improvement to the deprecation functionality.

Author: Basically the thing you suggest is not possible without actions above the parser of the python code. That's definitely not something we want to do as we have no time right now. We have been thinking about the solution and really do not have a good one so far. This is the best we have and people have to live with that until we have another.

Btw, what is confusing on this section? How it can be improved?

Reviewer 2: Skipping from commenting:
> We have been thinking about the solution and really do not have a good one so far

But something like https://gist.github.com/ZhukovGreen/10544d9ed7150f450056b1791616c626 will work

Reviewer 2: As a simple hack, we might just update the deprecation message to look something like this:
before
```
Usage of deprecated Model "BaseFoo"
```
after
```
Usage of deprecated Model "BaseFoo" or models inherited from it
```

Author: > But something like https://gist.github.com/ZhukovGreen/10544d9ed7150f450056b1791616c626 will work

Currently, we need to write documentation regarding the functionality in the released version. The proposal seems nice, but it's not part of the release, so it could be improvement for the future. As well, we have to have versioned documentation vefore we start to do updates of doc regarding the upstream devel changes.

Reviewer 2: ok

# Deprecation

The deprecation process is here to make (your) life of developers easier.
It's not possible to write perfect solution for everything and as the project
is evolving, it happens that some functionality needs to be changed, replaced
or dropped completely. Such situations are inevitable. To reduce negative
impact on your code, we introduce the deprecation process described below.

## What is covered by deprecation process in leapp?

In short, leapp entities that are supposed to be used by other developers.
That means e.g.:

1. Models
1. Shared library classes and functions in leapp repository
1. Public APIs
1. Actors providing functionality that could be used by any developer (produce
   or consume messages)

In other words, private classes, private functions or anything in private
libraries, may be modified or removed without the deprecation process. As well,
it's possible we will need to change something (e.g. a behaviour of a function)
that will not be possible to cover reasonably by the deprecation process (e.g.
change output of the function...). We'll try our best to prevent it, but it may

> happen. To limit such problems, we recommend people to use APIs as much

Reviewer 3: Let's add hyperlink to the APIs...

Author: Discussed in person. That's not one specific API, it's generic (one is provided by the framework, one through shared libraries in a repository, another will be provided by workflowAPIs,...)

    value = fields.String()
```

If we do only this and execute actors that produce/consume messages of this model,
we will obtain messages like these (just example from the actor
producing the message after execution by snactor):

```bash
# snactor run fooproducer
============================================================
                 USE OF DEPRECATED ENTITIES
============================================================

Usage of deprecated Model "Foo" @ /path/to/repo/actors/fooproducer/actor.py:17
Near:         self.produce(Foo(value='Answer is: 42'))

Reason: This model has been deprecated.
------------------------------------------------------------

============================================================
             END OF USE OF DEPRECATED ENTITIES
============================================================
```

Apparently, the `Reason` is not so good. It's just example. In real world
example, you would like to provide usually a little bit better explanation.
Anyway, much more interesting is the point, that the message is now printed
everytime the actor is executed.

Obviously we do not want to remove the actor yet, because in such a case, the

> model could be hardly called as deprecated - we need to provide the same

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
model could be hardly called as deprecated - we need to keep the same
```

(especially leapp and leapp-repository) the OAMG team take care about release
notes to ensure they contain all data about dropped and deprecated
functionality.

Additionally, when using leapp or snactor, user is notified via messages about
deprecated entities in **limited cases** (see below). In case of the leapp
utility, such messages are presented inside the generated reports. In case
of the snactor utility, the information message is printed in the console
output in the end of the snactor execution. See examples in this page for
detail.

But be aware of limitations of our detection in leapp and snactor utilities.
Our detection mechanisms are not bulletproof. Here is list of some examples,
when our detection does not work well:

- when an actor a message of a deprecated model, the usage of the deprecated
  model is detected only if the message has been produced before; IOW, in
  case the message X is produced only on machines with a specific package,
  the deprecated usage is not detected on machines without the package
- when a message of a deprecated model is consumed, the message points
  internals of the leapp framework, instead of place where the message is

>   consumed, e.g.

Author: @bocekm  read the example below. Do you expect reported such a place of the usage of the deprecated entity instead. Internals of the framework instead of actor. Is it clear now? If yes, any suggestion for more clear description?

    assert Foo(value='Answer is: 42') in produced_msgs.model_instance
```

If you run the test, you will get output like this (shortened):

```python
| 21:48:01 | conftest | INFO | conftest.py | Actor 'foo_producer' context teardown complete

repos/system_upgrade/el7toel8/actors/fooproducer/tests/test_unit_fooproducer.py::test_process PASSED

================================================== warnings summary ==================================================
repos/system_upgrade/el7toel8/actors/fooproducer/tests/test_unit_fooproducer.py::test_process
  /tmp/leapp-repository/repos/system_upgrade/el7toel8/actors/fooproducer/libraries/fooproducer_lib.py:5: _DeprecationWarningContext: Usage of deprecated Model "Foo"
    api.produce(Foo(value='Answer is: 42'))
  /tmp/leapp-repository/repos/system_upgrade/el7toel8/actors/fooproducer/tests/test_unit_fooproducer.py:10: _DeprecationWarningContext: Usage of deprecated Model "Foo"
    assert Foo(value='Answer is: 42') in produced_msgs.model_instances

-- Docs: http://doc.pytest.org/en/latest/warnings.html
======================================== 1 passed, 2 warnings in 0.13 seconds ========================================
```

> As you can see the warning have been generated again. This time on two places,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As you can see the warning have been generated again. This is because each time a deprecated model instantiated - the deprecation warning emitted.```

Then I think the further text until `### Example of replacing model` is more confusing than helpful. All you try to achieve is to eliminate one extra deprecation warning, but why is it necessary?

Author: That's not exact true as well. When you do something like this:
```
for i in [1,1]:
    self.produce(DeprecatedFoo())
```
you will get just one warning - not two.

Author: > Then I think the further text until ### Example of replacing model is more confusing than helpful. All you try to achieve is to eliminate one extra deprecation warning, but why is it necessary?

@ZhukovGreenbecause the point is that there shouldn't be any warning message.

Reviewer 2: Considering all the further information you have to add to explain how to get rid of the warning during the test, I believe it is worthless and still more confusing than helpful. I think it is not good to have this ind of workaround with def _foo()

Author: Skipping for now. It can be improved in the next iteration.

or dropped completely. Such situations are inevitable. To reduce negative
impact on your code, we introduce the deprecation process described below.

We are still working on improvement of the current situation to provide stable
interfaces for people, so extensibility of the current solutions could be much

> easier. This is just on of those improvements.

Reviewer: The whole paragraph is quite hard to grasp. It's so abstract that I don't even know what is the message I should take from it. I think it can be removed all.

Author: the removal is ok for me
